Cyclone for GameBoy Advance is based on Cyclone 
by Costa Panayi (c)1985 Vortex Software

Gameboy Advance version by Quirky

visit http://www.quirky.remakes.org
email: quirky[at]zoom.co.uk

Controls:
---------
 A - forwards
 B - show map
 L - change view
 up & down - change altitude
 left & right - rotate copter

Gameplay:
----------

You are the pilot of a rescue helicopter in the aftermath of a 
particularly nasty  tropical storm. Your mission (you've already 
accepted it) is to  fly around the archipelago collecting all the 
medical supplies found in the  little crates and then bring them 
all back to Base. 

Your helicopter is equipped with a state of the art winch. Ahem. 
Whenever you fly over a crate, the  winch is lowered 
automatically. When you hover low enough, the hook on the end 
will get hold of the  box and your trusty winch man will reel in 
the supplies.  

Along the way, you can rescue people for bonus points too. Follow 
a similar tactic to box  collection and you'll be racking up the 
hi scores (which unlock the hidden options...). Be careful not to 
get too  close to the landscape though, as your copter is 
especially fragile and one bash  often results in catastrophe. 
You only have 3 lives to begin with, though you earn 1 more 
every time you complete the mission.

Added to the problem is the cyclone itself - the whirling grey 
blob (as seen on  the map) will hurl your copter out of the sky 
should you get too close. Your  wind gauge warns you of the 
approaching storm, so pay heed. 

Further problems are caused by your allies in the rescue planes -
they often fly  at such high speed that they don't have time to 
avoid your slower copter. If you  are flying between islands, 
make sure to keep out of their flight path. 

Avoid running out of fuel too - you can refuel for free at any of 
the landing pads  dotted about the islands. Don't spend too long 
dawdling though, you only have a  limited time to collect the 
crates and return to base. 

A tip - you can land almost anywhere, providing it is flat 
enough, not just on  the designated landing pads. Make use of 
this ability when the cyclone gets too close...


Thanks to these folk:
-----------------------
Devkit Advance:
Jason Wilkins, Jeff Frohwein

Tutorials & GBA definitions:
Dovoto (@thepernproject)

Graphics tools (gfx2gba):
Markus 

Sounds (BoyScout):
Christer Andersson

GBA emulators:
Forgotten (VisualBoyAdvance)
Gollum (Boycott Advance)
Bottled Light (Mappy VM)

Practical examples:
staringmonkey

Webspace:
The Toker @ www.remakes.org

Speccy games:
www.worldofspectrum.org
