
-----------------------
    Matrix Runner
-----------------------

Nicholas Scheltema 2007 - nscheltema@gmail.com
PDROMS.DE coding competition 3.666 - www.pdroms.de


The game:
---------

This game is inspired by William Gibson's Neuromancer book and it's sequels with a bit of influence from the 
likewise inspired RPG, Shadowrun.

You play the role of a hacker in the future, a 'decker', jacking into the global computer network 'The Matrix' 
with a direct brain link that enables you to experience the computer network as a virtual reality.


Controls:
---------

UP/DOWN    - select network number and commands
LEFT/RIGHT - move your avatar in the matrix

UP/DOWN/LEFT/RIGHT - (on the system map) move your position in the network

A - action
B - cancel

Press A to start the game from the startup demo mode.

Gameplay:
---------

For each network in the game there is a contract for a particular task to be done. This could be stealing files
from data stores, using devices through i/o ports or crashing the CPU. You get paid when you accomplish this task;
the higher the network number, the more you get paid. But the higher network numbers are also more difficult and
dangerous to attack.

When you start the game you must select the network you want to attack. Use UP/DOWN to change and A to select.
The alert level beneath the network will indicate whether or not you can enter the network; green means you can,
red means you cannot.

Once you've selected a network, the system map will draw the layout of the network. Your position in indicated by
the flashing node, your target node is highlighted with four dots around it. Each square represents a possible
node location, and the lines between them indicate paths between the nodes. Each node symbol in the squares indicate
what the node is:

C     - CPU, the central core of the network
	Notes: You can travel to anywhere in the network from here, bypassing active security.
	Use command: Crashes the network, automatically jacking you out.

S     - Store, a data storage node on the network
	Notes: May contain other data of worth
	Use command: retrieve files

P     - Port, an interface to an external device
	Use command: activate the port

E     - Entrance / exit
	Notes: Moving to this node will cause you to jack out of the system

O     - Unused node
	Notes: Have no security systems

Use UP/DOWN/LEFT/RIGHT to change your position in the network, you will be unable to pass nodes with active security.
Use A to interact with the node.

When interacting with a node, the main display area lights up. Here you will see the node you are interacting in the
centre of the display and your avatar near the bottom. On the right hand side is the command list. At the top left
is the node's statistics, the node defence indicates the security system's integrity and the node level indicates how
powerful the system security is. At the bottom left is the player's defence, attack power and nuyen amount.

Use LEFT/RIGHT to move the player avatar. Use UP/DOWN to select programs on the right hand menu, and A to execute that 
command. The commands include:

Attack - Damage the security system, reducing the node defence amount
	 Upside: guaranteed to succeed eventually
	 Downside: red alert sounded

Crack  - Try to penetrate defences using algorithms to generate passcodes
	 Upside: disables security on success
	 Downside: moderate success rate

Sneak  - Try to disguise your signature on the network as something mundane so the system ignores you
	 Upside: temporarily bypass system security
	 Downside: security is not disabled

Use    - Access the node's functionality, see the node list above for details
	 The node's security must be disabled for this to work

Move   - Leave this node, this will take you back to the system map to move around

The level of the program vs the level of the node determines the success rate of the command. A sphere in the middle 
of the node indicates the security is still active, when the node's defence reaches zero the security is disabled.
Once you've been to a node, it is easier to return, possibly even bypassing nodes you snuck passed before.

The network has an alert level, which is indicated beneath the network number and can be either
green, yellow or red. Repeatedly failing to crack, sneak or use a node will make the system suspicious and it will
raise the alert level. Attacking a node will set the whole system to red alert instantly. Once the system is in red
alert, attempts to crack or sneak will fail, nor will you be able to leave a node with active security. All security
in a network is reset when you re-enter it after leaving it.

In red alert mode, all the system nodes' security will attack you, the higher the node level, the faster and more
damaging the attacks are. You must dodge the attacks coming towards you by moving your avatar using LEFT/RIGHT.
Every hit damages your defences, and when your defences hit zero, its game-over and your brain gets fried! When you
are game over, the number of objectives you completed are displayed at the bottom of the screen.

In red alert mode, your only option is to attack. The attack program needs time to construct another attack, this is
indicated with the power bar at the bottom of the display and it needs to reach full power before you can attack again.
The higher the level of the attack program, the faster it constructs attacks and the more damage it does.

Once you've removed the defences and completed the objective, you must make your way back to the exit node to jack out.
If you crash the CPU, you jack out automatically. You cannot re-enter a network once you've completed its objective,
the alert level will be set to red permanently and refuse all incoming connections.

Whenever you leave a network, you get the opportunity to buy upgrades for your programs. The higher the level your
program, the more effective it is. The cost of each upgrade to the next level is the current level of the program
multiplied by 1000 nuyen. Use UP/DOWN to select the program on the right hand menu, A to buy the upgrade and B when
you are done.

After the upgrade menu, you return to the network select mode to choose your next target. If you can complete all 256
available networks, you win and earn the title of being elite.


Strategy:
---------

The basic strategy is to avoid setting off alarms and red alert while trying to reach the objective.

You should try to crack and sneak your way through the system.

Log into networks, raid non-objective datastores and log out again to save up for upgrades.

You should only attack if red alert is sounded or the defences are way too high to crack or sneak by.


Programming notes:
------------------

All the networks are procedurally generated, so they will be the same every time you play the game. It is possible to 
learn or even map the game.

I tried to keep the rom size as small as possible, using run length encoding for the background image and bit-encoding
the sprites, and compiling to THUMB instructions. Unfortunately, I used stdio to convert some numbers to a format I could 
display with sprites which practically doubled the rom size. It's still under 64KB though.


Gameboy Advance / Emulation notes:
----------------------------------

This game was untested on the real hardware, but it worked 100% on VisualBoyAdvance.

If you are going to try it on the real thing, you will need to GBAFIX the rom header information.

