Pnakys v1.00 by Torlus (greg@heliscar.com), for PDRoms coding compo #1, released as "Public Domain".

Pnakys is a "puzzle game", which gameplay is inspired by an old arcade game called Pnickies,
which gameplay is itself a mix between Tetris and Bust-a-Move :) 
Basically you have to make groups of balls of the same color, then explode them by having
two "special" balls (balls that contain a star) within a group. Exploding large groups will
give you big score increases.
Well, I know that explanation isn't very good, so let's focus on the game itself :)

You have two game modes : the "Normal mode" and the "Vertical Mode".

In the "Normal Mode", you can move the falling item with left and right keys, make it go down
faster with the down key, and rotate it with A and B keys.
You can pause the game using Start or Select keys.

In the "Vertical Mode", then you have to rotate your GBA 90° on the left :)
This means that you move the falling item left and right using up and down keys, make it go
down faster with the left key, and rotate it with Start and Select buttons.
You can then pause the game using A or B key.
It seems a bit weird, but trust me, once you get familiar with it, it's the better mode :)
You then have larger graphics, which make the game easier to play, and I don't think that
this idea has been used in another game before :)

Later in the game, some "parasites" will fall. You can explode them by making a group of
balls explode near to them.
There's also a high-score table that is stored in SRAM.

You can also have a quick demonstration of how to play Pnakys (it should be easier to
understand than my previous attempt of an explanation at the beginning of this file).
You should have a look at it before playing.

Well, I hope you'll enjoy this game. What I wanted to do was a "true" game, simple but
addictive :) Not a technically impressive one, but just something that you'd like to play
everywhere, at any time, just as Tetris was (is).

Later I hope to make things I couldn't have done due to lack of time, i.e improved graphics
and sound, multi-player game, etc. If you want the source code, please send me an e-mail, and
I'll send it to you (I "release" it as Public Domain stuff too).

I'd like to thank people that helped me with this game :
- Sylvie, my wife, who helped me with gfx, good ideas, support and intensive beta-testing :)
- Lolo, who suggested me to make this game.
- People at #gbadev and #gbadevfr


Torlus (http://heliscar.com/greg/)

